Previously on Vikings...
I want to take her with us.
No, Helga. Helga.
I am taking her with me!
Where is our father?
King Ecbert handed him
over to King Aelle.
Our father is probably dead by now.
And we will have to avenge him.
We have to prepare.
The sons of Ragnar will
come to claim vengeance.
There is no better man
than you to make every
preparation for our defense.
You murdered my mother.
One day I will kill you, Lagertha.
How the little piggies will grunt.
When they hear how the
old boar suffered.
MAN: Ivar, your father is dead.
(SCREAMING)
(IF I HAD A HEART PLAYING)
♪ If I had a heart I could love you ♪
♪ If I had a voice I would sing ♪
♪ After the night when I wake up ♪
♪ I'll see what tomorrow brings ♪
♪ If I had a voice I would sing ♪
- sync and corrections by Mr.C -
- www.addic7ed.com -
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(HAMMERING)
That is my knife.
No, it is not.
(MUSIC PLAYING)
- Give it to me.
- You're crazy. It's not your knife.
Father gave me this knife.
I want it.
I will kill Lagertha with it.
I will kill Lagertha
with Father's knife!
Well, you can't have it.
That's enough!
(GRUNTING)
Give it to me!
(GRUNTS)
Get up! Hey!
We have important decisions to make.
As usual, you must
tell us how to behave!
Who else would do it?
I wish Bjorn was here.
You think he knows about Father?
Oh, so, you think that Odin told
us, but forgot to tell Bjorn? Hmm?
Hopefully he will be home soon.
In the meantime, it is up
to us to decide what to do.
(EXHALES)
I'm listening. Say
something interesting.
You heard what he said, how the
little pigs will grunt when they hear
how the old boar suffered.
So now we're grunting. So what?
We want blood-revenge
against Aelle, hmm?
- Yes.
- Not only
against Aelle.
I told you,
King Ecbert offered our
father up like a sacrifice,
so we'll do the same thing to him.
That is what Father wanted.
That is the message that he
wanted me to bring to you.
That is so easy to say, Ivar.
Here he is, the voice of reason.
I hate reason.
What do you mean, Ubbe?
I'm listening, even if he's not.
Aelle has a small kingdom but
Ecbert's kingdom is vast.
How do we overcome that
when we have never attempted
anything like that before?
We raise an army.
No, you're not listening, brother.
We raise a great army.
An army bigger than ever before.
Sigurd is right.
We call in favors.
We do deals with Kings
and Earls that we hate.
Whatever we have to
promise them, we promise.
And in the end,
we assemble an army twice
the size of the army our
father took to Paris.
And we declare war on England.
No.
In the name of our dead father,
in the name of Ragnar Lothbrok,
the greatest hero of our country,
and in the name of Odin,
we declare war on the whole world.
(VOICES CALLING)
Frankia.
Home?
I don't know.
Difficult to return.
When we return, Hvitserk
and I, and our brothers
we will have to avenge
our father's death.
And that would be difficult for you too.
You would not be welcome,
for what you did to all of us.
And I would have to kill you.
(VOICES CALLING)
SHIELD-MAIDEN: Shield wall!
Let him pass.
Ubbe.
UBBE: The work seems
to be going very well.
I am impressed.
Kattegat is worth defending.
I remember, a long time ago,
when it was nothing but a
few houses, a single jetty.
I know very well what happened
to Kattegat, Lagertha.
I was born here and I grew up here.
We are going to raise an
army to invade England
and avenge the death of our father.
Will you come with us?
Would you really want
me to come with you?
We will need all the help we can get.
After all, don't you have a reason?
I also have a reason to stay here.
I understand you are inviting other
rulers to come and join your army.
Don't you think some of
them will be envious when
they see the size and understand
the value of this trading station?
It depends, I suppose, on what
is more important to you.
That's not worthy of you, Ubbe.
I know what your father
would have wanted me to do.
Astrid. Torvi.
I do not trust him.
I know he is not Ivar...
And yet, he is Ivar.
You should look to improve
your own security.
If the gods don't protect
me, then who can?
(BLOWS)
What's her name?
I think it is Tanaruz.
She's very frightened, Helga.
Don't be afraid.
I won't hurt you. I will love you.
HALFDAN: Brother.
When we reach Kattegat,
Bjorn Ironside will take all
the profits from these women.
So he will. For now.
And who is this?
I didn't know him either.
Turns out his father is an Earl.
An Earl?
Why did you not say so?
Because he's the Earl
and I'm not.
They call me Egil the Bastard.
But you would like to be Earl?
It's good that we have met, Egil.
We need ambitious men.
(BIRDS CALLING IN DISTANCE)
I still have a bone to
pick with you, Sigurd.
Why were you silent when I
demanded justice from Lagertha?
We have different memories of Mother.
She doted on you, and she ignored me.
She had eyes only for
you and for Harbard.
To me, she was cold and distant.
So you feel sorry for yourself?
Poor little Sigurd.
You're wrong, Ivar. I don't
feel sorry for myself.
Yeah. Right. No. Of course not.
I'm telling you the truth.
I have very good reason not to
feel so angry with Lagertha.
Then what kind of a son
are you? Hmm?
What does it matter what
your mother did to you?
She was still your mother.
(SCOFFS)
You would say that, wouldn't you?
What does that mean?
What do you think it means?
You tell me.
All right, I will, Mommy's boy.
Mommy's little favorite!
Are you just really sad she can't
breastfeed you anymore, is that it?
(GRUNTS)
Whoever would have thought
that you two were brothers?
AELLE: To what do we owe
the honor of your visit?
JUDITH: I wanted to see my family.
I also wanted to warn you.
You mean, Ecbert sent you.
No.
I came of my own devising.
There is much talk of the
revenge of the sons of Ragnar.
I wanted you all to be aware of it,
and prepared for it.
You need not have concerned
yourself as to travel so far.
Why should I not be aware of
the habits of the heathen?
I promise you, we are
already well prepared
for any incursions into our kingdom.
I'm not sure you realize the scale
of their possible retribution.
Ragnar Lothbrok was not
only their King, Father,
he was the most famous
man in their world.
Believe me, daughter, I
have taken stock of them.
I know what to expect.
And we are fully prepared.
Then should you not reinstate
your alliance with King Ecbert?
I have no wish or need to be allied
to such a degenerate monarch.
Daughter,
we are all aware of your
immoral relationship
with your father-in-law.
It grieves us deeply.
We pray that you will return
to your wedded husband
and behave as a Christian
wife ought to behave.
I am grateful for your concern, Mother.
But there is no need to pray for me.
If we do not pray for
your soul, daughter,
then you will be damned
for all eternity.
If I am to hell, at least I will enjoy
the company of my degenerate monarch.
Judith! Blasphemous girl!
As for you, Father,
you may enjoy the aridities of heaven
without my discomforting presence,
and that of every other woman whose
only crime was a desire to be free.
There is something I would like to see.
(HORNS SOUNDING)
Are you going to go home?
I know what I have to do.
I want to make you all an offer.
Anyone from our homelands
who wants good,
rich lands to farm
can come and live in my kingdom.
There will always be a part of Frankia
which is a part of us.
Us?
You are no longer a part of "us," Rollo.
But what is "us," Floki, is changing.
Only you won't accept it.
(CHUCKLES)
And so I say the same to you.
And you, Hvitserk.
Too much bad blood, Rollo.
Once a betrayer, always a betrayer.
HELGA: Goodbye, Rollo.
Goodbye, Helga.
I won't forget.
I won't forget anything.
(LAUGHS)
(CAPTAIN CALLING OUT)
(VOICES CALLING)
You should have killed him
when you had the chance.
Why would you say that?
Because I have a bad feeling
that he will reach more fame
than any of you.
Husband.
Gisla.
You came back to us.
Thank God.
Truly, thank God.
Leave us.
(SIGHS)
(SPEAKING IN NATIVE TONGUE)
(PANTING)
(YELLING IN NATIVE TONGUE)
(SPEAKING IN NATIVE TONGUE)
(VOICES CALLING)
(GRUNTING)
What are you doing?
You're not a slave anymore.
- You can't decide that.
- I can.
I am the son of Ragnar Lothbrok.
I don't care about Lagertha.
You are now a free woman.
Why?
Because you'll have to be free
in order to marry one of us.
(WIND BLOWING)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
ECBERT: I want to talk to
you about books, Alfred.
- ALFRED: Books, Grandfather?
- ECBERT: Yes.
If you are going to be King one day,
you need to understand that books
are just as important as
swords or plowshares.
These are some works by
great writers that I read
and translated from
Latin as a young man.
And this, this is a work
by Gregory the Great.
Now, he asks questions such as,
"What kind of man he is or
ought to be, who is to rule?"
And,
"Can the occupation of power
distract the mind of the ruler?"
Yes, well, I can see that
you're bored already.
No, Grandfather.
Good boy.
To the future.
Drink up, drink up!
Here's the thing, Alfred.
Because God chooses you as King,
you need to be
a teacher to your people.
Do you understand that?
Yes, Grandfather.
Let's drink!
These are great matters!
Mmm, mmm!
All of it!
One day
you may be King.
I hope so with all my heart.
And yet, I know its burdens.
They're very real,
like forever dragging a stone up a hill,
only to watch it perpetually
roll back down again.
You need to drink more wine.
I don't want any more, Grandfather.
Nonsense, nonsense.
You'll join me in one more.
(SPITS)
Now, you keep saying you understand
but you obviously don't.
I've just been drinking water,
while you were drinking the wine.
Don't ever let yourself be
influenced by other people.
Especially people like me.
Always, always think your own thoughts.
And act on them!
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Is this the place?
This is the pit where Ragnar died.
Yes. Thank God. Just in this place.
Just here.
This is where the pagan died.
Then it is a sacred place.
How dare you say such things?
- Are you mad?
- I may be.
But since I love some of you,
I urge you again to take
heed of my warning.
The sons of Ragnar are sure to come!
As for you, sweet sister,
I counsel you, have a
care for your own soul.
And learn to read.
(HORN SOUNDS)
(CROWS CAWING)
Our first arrivals, huh?
For the greatest army ever assembled.
And they will be our instruments.
Our instruments of wrath.
(LAUGHING)
Are you really going to allow
Lagertha to escape her punishment?
Hmm?
No.
We must have revenge.
Yes.
And sooner rather than later.
Why are we waiting?
(SEAGULLS CRYING)
(PEOPLE TALKING)
(FOLK MUSIC PLAYING)
(LAUGHING)
My friends, welcome to Kattegat.
And who might you be?
My name is Ubbe.
Forgive me, Ubbe.
If I'd known, I would
never have been so rude.
Your father was a great hero.
Perhaps the greatest hero of our race.
And that is why we have
answered your summons,
and come to avenge his death.
He was also like our father.
That we have all lost a father.
(LAUGHING)
Who's the cripple?
His name is Ivar and he's my brother.
So I would suggest you stop
laughing at him right now.
Instead, if you want
to stay alive, I would
learn to respect and fear him.
That would be my advice.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Queen Lagertha.
- Who are you?
- Earl Jorgensen.
From Sweden.
We have come a long way to see you.
But it is a short distance to
meet the famous shield-maiden,
Queen Lagertha, and the
sons of Ragnar Lothbrok.
Ragnar and I were simple farmers.
I had no idea our fame
had spread so far.
Are you joking?
It is almost tiresome to hear the
poets talk of all your exploits.
I'm sorry it was tiresome.
Perhaps we should have done
things a more interesting way.
No, no, no. That is the fault
of the poets, not you.
And who is this?
This is Torvi, my son Bjorn's companion.
And this is Astrid, one
of my shield-maidens.
I leave you in their company.
- We'll see.
- Really?
(PEOPLE JOKING AND
LAUGHING IN BACKGROUND)
You had no right to free my
slaves without my permission.
I don't remember you asking
permission to kill my mother.
That's different. I am Queen now.
I know.
I just don't know for how long.
Ubbe!
I wanted to tell you.
You look just like your father
looked when he was a young man.
When I first knew him.
(HUM OF PEOPLE IN DISTANCE)
(CHUCKLING)
Ah!
(FOLK MUSIC PLAYING)
(LAUGHTER)
Something's happening.
What?
I don't know. But something!
(GASPING, STRUGGLING)
Lagertha!
What is happening here?
It's none of your
business, Earl Jorgensen.
(MUSIC PLAYING)
(GASPS)
If you kill her, my brothers,
you'll have to kill me too.
Maybe we should.
Shut up.
She killed our mother.
I know.
You want revenge.
So would I.
But more importantly, we
have to avenge our father.
That is why I came back.
And that is what
we are going to do.
(GRUNTS)
So you had your revenge?
I'm not saying we shouldn't do it,
but think about it. If we...
Hvitserk!
(LAUGHING)
Welcome home, brother.
I heard you freed Margrethe?
You want to marry her. I'm glad.
Just don't keep her all to yourself.
UBBE: It's good to have
you back, brother.
Have you heard about Mother?
Yes.
Well, you and I, Ubbe,
we jumped under the ice because of her.
So I don't quite agree that we
should kill Lagertha because of it.
Ivar thinks we should.
Ivar's crazy. You know that.
Maybe we should wait.
Until we avenge our father.
Someone has to rule
Kattegat when we're away.
And if we kill Lagertha,
we have to kill Bjorn
and I don't want to do that.
Well, maybe you couldn't do it anyways.
Would you want to test me, brother?
(SOUNDS OF PEOPLE WORKING)
HARALD: Can you see what we mean, Egil?
Lagertha is building
some serious defenses.
EGIL: In my opinion, it doesn't
matter how careful you are,
there will always be weak
places in the defense.
It just takes a clever person to
figure out where the weak places are.
And are you a clever person, Egil?
Well, I'm not beautiful, am I?
(CHUCKLES)
MAN: Pull!
(INHALES, EXHALES)
How can you go with Ivar,
when he wants to kill your mother?
We're brothers.
We want to kill Aelle.
Nothing else matters right now, woman.
I don't understand.
Of course it matters.
It matters to me even if
it doesn't matter to you!
- (BABY CRYING)
- Listen!
I did not come back here
to be told what to do.
Not by you, not by anyone!
(BABY SCREAMING)
Please. You must eat.
Tanaruz.
Ah, ah.
(SIGHS)
Hello, Floki.
- Helga.
- FLOKI: Ivar.
So, who's this?
Her name is Tanaruz.
Oh, you brought her back?
She'll make a good slave, I'm sure.
She is not a slave.
We are adopting her.
She is my child.
Ah!
Well, let's see.
- (GASPING)
- Shh, it's all right.
I won't hurt you.
- (SCREAMING)
- It's all right.
Don't be afraid.
It's very sweet of you to
drag your crippled arse
all the way over here to see me.
Why do you think I want
anything from you,
you spindly legged,
knock-kneed boat-builder?
It's nice to see how much you've
matured since I've been away.
Matured? What, you think I want
to be an old fool like you?
The way you behave, dear Ivar,
you'll never get the chance.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
(GROWLING WITH JOY)
Actually,
might be something that
you can do for me.
Oh.
Now that we're going
to England to fight,
it's about time I didn't
have to crawl about.
Especially on the battlefield.
I wonder if you could help me, Floki.
I'll figure something out.
- Come on, donkey.
- (CHUCKLES)
Almost there.
(HORSE GROWLING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
What is it?
It's your legs, Ivar.
It's your wings.
Is it really for me?
(LAUGHING WITH JOY)
Woo!
(YELLING)
(YELPING WITH GLEE)
Bjorn.
Where's Lagertha?
She has gone to Hedeby.
What for?
She does not tell me everything.
Nor I.
- sync and corrections by Mr.C -
- www.addic7ed.com -